I don't know who's in charge of
recording. Thank you very much.
Appreciate that. Um, so I am going to
call to order the Town of Andover Board
of Selectmen regular meeting for Monday,
November 10th, uh, 2025 at 7:01 p.m. And
our first order of business is the
Pledge of Allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all. Um, item two on our
agenda is public speak. So, I'm just
going to try to go around. Um,
and I'm gonna start with Heidi.
Hi. I I wasn't sure I was going to be
doing it this way, but okay. Um I'm here
just sort of as representative of the
Norton Commission to talk a little bit
about a proposal that we have. So I I
don't know where this sits or when I'm
supposed to do that. So but I said I
would join and uh I'm here for that
purpose.
>> Okay. Um
we'll sit there and and get to that
Heidi. So we'll just keep going. Diane
Grer.
>> Hi there. I hope you can hear me.
>> Yeah,
>> good. I've got a new computer, so life
should be good here. Um, I just a couple
of things. I just want to thank Eric uh
Anderson for his years of service to uh
the town of Andover. Uh we will miss him
and I send best wishes to him and is on
your way to your new job. So, thank you
very much. also like to uh extend
congratulations to all the winners in
the election and um thank you to all
those that um did step forward for the
election and um I I hope you all
continue to um stay active in the town.
So, thank you all very much.
>> Okay, Kathy Plazy,
>> good evening. Um, I want to the only
couple of things I have is I want to
thank all the candidates uh that won and
I want to thank all the ones that didn't
win but they should stay join a
committee uh try hard because who knows
there might be something else in a
couple years. So, thank you very much
for that. And lastly, I want to thank of
course Ed Eric Anderson for all he did
to help us or especially uh our
sustainable uh committee and all the
other committees I worked on like the
olderian grounds. Uh whenever we had
something a question, he was always
ready and able to help us. And so we
thank him very much and uh good luck
with your new position and new uh town
and state. Thank you, Eric.
All right, Liz Latch.
>> There we are. Um, I I don't really have
much either. Um, I would echo the thanks
to Eric and wish you well on your your
new adventure going forward. Um,
thank you for all your help and
personally all your help with me lately.
I appreciate it.
All right. Uh, Ed Weineart.
>> Hi. I'm here to speak out in support of
Haley Proto who's been running a program
for uh, kids after school um, on
Thursdays at the community center. Um,
both my kids have been doing this
program for quite a few months now and
it's been absolutely fantastic. And this
is not um, you know, we don't need
afterchool care for them or anything.
Usually I just sit in the parking lot
and wait for them to be done. Uh my son
who uh has been playing chess and
checkers at the chess and checkers club
um has really done a great job this he
has a lot of trouble interacting with
other kids and it's really made a huge
difference to him. Uh, and my daughter,
they just started uh this past week um
adding a D&D
um uh I don't know game I guess. I guess
it's a game Dungeons and Dragons game
which uh she's absolutely in love with.
And getting to uh have not having to go
to other towns libraries, which is where
we usually go for her to play and being
able to do that in town with her friends
has been really really excellent. Uh and
so I just want to say that a note of
support um towards her and how uh how
great of a program that has been uh for
my kids. Thank you.
>> Jeff, you're on Zoom or on mute? Mute.
>> Jeff, I Yeah, I'm sorry. I did. I'm
Megan Lai.
All right. Can you hear me?
>> I can.
>> Okay. Um, I want to echo Ed's comments.
It's my understanding that the board may
be voting tonight on whether or not to
expand Haley's contract and um I would
advocate for, you know, doing so if at
all possible. She's been um really
expanding um in addition covering when
Sus was out expanding the programs
particularly those um for families in
town. Um my children also participate in
the after school programs that Ed was
talking about, but she's also working on
um doing like a winter Polar Express
parents night out with the PTA. She's
previously supported a lot of the
recreation programs and you know for
fact a lot of that was um volunteer
hours. Um but it would be nice if we
could pay her for some of the hours that
she donates. So um just also for my
sport. Um, and then I'm also on, so I
don't know how long I'll last because
I'm usually in bed by 9 um to answer
questions about some of the ideas I had
about how we could use um the money for
um litter prevention and education.
>> Okay,
thank you. Badonsky.
>> Good evening. Um just wanted to
congratulate everyone who ran. Thank you
to everyone who put theirelves out
there. Um, thank you to Eric for all the
service to the town. And I also just
wanted to speak in support of Haley and
everything that she has done uh to
connect the community and offer more
programs. Um, and I hope that we can
find a way to continue to keep her here
in our town. Thank you everyone.
>> Okay, Claudia Mendoza.
>> Good evening. I am also here to support
Haley Pro. Uh my daughter Valentina has
been in the program uh the after school
program and uh not only uh playing chess
and um but interacting and developing
her social emotional skills with um
Haley and and you know all the kids that
go there. So I'm here for Haley.
>> Okay. Marcy Miner.
>> Hi. No, thank you. What I'm think right
now,
>> Leanne Hutchinson.
>> Okay, we'll come back to you, Joan Eert.
>> Um, nothing right now. Just here to
listen and stay informed as always.
Thank you,
>> Bill Penn.
Uh, good evening. I'd like to first of
all I I read the article with the work
that Kathy Plazi has done with
sustainability work in town
sustainability work. So kudos to her for
that and for going uh getting trying to
get us to the next level. Hope we can do
that. Also like to support Haley Proto.
Uh while I don't have any kids involved
with or have worked with her directly, I
have heard from others and not just
those here but others on the good work
she's done. So I would support uh her
being her being uh sustained and
continued. Um,
Eric, thanks for all you've done for the
town and uh specifically for the rail
trail. Um, as you know, I I use the rail
trail a lot. I live next to it, but uh
you've you've you've made the Andover
section of the rail trail part of the uh
uh shining part of what's going on here
uh in along this 20 mile segment. Um and
I close with uh one question. I I've
often wondered why our voting results
aren't posted by the town of Andover,
even if it's in just a a draft format
that we have to find it on Andover
Grapevine or some other Andover page.
Why the town doesn't even if they're
unofficial draft like like the Secretary
of State posts them, why we can't have
them posted so they're more immediately
uh accessible.
And my god, I had a final question, but
I talked so much I can't remember what
it is. So, sorry. I'll sign off. You're
five. Uh, test graphs.
>> I'm all set at this time. Thank you,
Jeff.
>> No problem. Kim P. Kimberly Person.
>> Yes,
>> I'm all set right now. Thank you.
>> Okay. And I have one phone number 2345
ends in.
That's Dennis. Jeff,
>> is that Dennis?
I didn't think Dennis was going to make
it tonight.
Okay. [clears throat]
So, did I miss anyone?
Okay. Um um before we get started, um
Eric, I do want to thank you for all
your hard work and I I want to introduce
everybody to Jim Blano. Uh he is taking
over on a temporary basis. He's over
there in the right hand corner in a nice
black turtleneck. So Jim, you're looking
good. You're making us all feel bad. And
uh I figure we'll get started now. So as
I said before, an will not be joining us
tonight. Um so we have Carol and Carol
is on um 6988.
So um everybody, if you could, you know,
keep yourselves muted and we'll sit
there and see if we can make this move
along a little bit. So, uh, item three,
uh, additions and, uh, changes to the
agenda. Did any of the members have
anything that they want to add or
delete,
Carol? Anything
for me?
>> Okay, Scott.
>> Nothing. Thank you.
>> Jeff Murray.
Okay, I'm good.
We'll get started. So, item four, uh,
board and commission, uh, commission
presentations. Eric, we don't have any,
>> I haven't gotten any advanced
notification of any.
>> That's fine. I'm just clarifying. It's
on the agenda. Got to ask. Uh, item
five, appointments. Um, we've had, uh,
some appointments that have been made.
Uh number one, Jim Balano has been
appointed as the uh interim town
administrator. Um replacing Eric. Eric's
last day is this for coming Friday. So
if you haven't gone in and talked to
Eric and wished him well where he goes,
take the time to do it. Um
uh the next 5B is Eric Johansson. Eric's
actually on the call. Um and Eric, you
know, I apologize. I didn't give a
chance to talk, but I'm going to give
you a chance to talk now about your
first few days uh at public works. So,
Eric has been uh appointed as the
director for public works. So, Eric,
thank you. Welcome.
>> It's uh definitely been interesting. Um
I don't know if any of you guys know my
background a little bit. I got over 35
years of public works experience. Um, my
first my first public works I was in
East Harford for 13 years. Um, I then
came out to Coventry for 22. Um, I've
done just about every job you can think
of in public works. Um, and I'm looking
forward to
doing
some real good in the town of Andover.
>> Eric, we appreciate it. Thank you very
much. Uh,
>> thank you.
>> Good to have you here and uh we look
forward to working with you.
>> Thank you. I look forward to working
with you guys, too.
>> All right. Um 5C, Jim Harlo has been
appointed to OABGC.
And Eric, if you can give us what the
acronym is for, that would help us.
>> Uh that's the old Andover burial ground
committee.
>> Okay. All right. Um do we need to do we
need to approve any of these? I mean,
we've approved I know we've approved
Jim. I know we've approved Eric, but do
we need to approve Jim?
Uh, I don't think so because I think the
committee the committee has the
authority to appoint them and they have.
So,
>> okay.
All right.
Um,
we'll move on to the next item.
Sustainable Connecticut Committee. What
page was that in?
I don't have who was appointed or who is
being appointed. I know Kathy is
involved in it. and Kathy,
congratulations on the bronze
certification that the town received.
That's uh that is a very nice honor. No,
we'll try to keep moving upwards if we
can.
Uh Jeff, also may I just say that uh it
was my era. We had a death in the family
and I was not able to uh send to um Kate
as I had intended because I need to have
my committee uh reassigned
uh you know that they can be on for the
next year until I guess June of next
year. And uh I want to make sure that
they're on there. And the people I'd
like you to thank is the lane card. Uh
Mike Burke um and Michelle uh Lauren and
also Mike Palazi and myself.
>> Okay. So I'm assuming those are all the
new members or the existing rolled over
members.
>> They are. Yes. All the Yes.
>> Okay. So if you could repeat that again.
And so is Elaine Bukart, Mike Burke,
>> and Michelle. Um, King, I think it's
King Lauren. L O R N TZ.
>> Okay. Can you actually do a favor for
us, Kathy? Is can you put the the names
in an email and get those to Kate? We'll
get those on the next meeting and we'll
have information posted.
>> I did that this morning.
>> Okay. No problem.
>> Kate was very busy.
>> Yeah, we'll [clears throat] we'll get
that information posted.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep. Thank you. Uh, and then the other
one is 5E, Bill Penn, Hop River Trail
Alliance. Um,
I don't remember us voting on that. I
know Eric had requested that someone be
appointed to Hop River Trail Alliance.
Um, I'll make a motion.
>> You have not appointed anybody to that.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, I suggested Bill would be a good
representative, but you're certainly
free to pick whoever you so desire. I
was actually going to make a motion to
appoint him right now if you don't have
a problem with that.
>> You should.
>> Well, let's actually ask this. Bill, are
you okay with with joining the Hub River
Trail?
>> Yes, I am. I was basically the second
second person. If Eric couldn't show up,
I could be the representative before
this, but I would be uh happy to take
the lead now.
>> All right. Um, so with that being said,
I'll nominate Bill Penn to serve on the
Hop River Trail Alliance on behalf of
the town of Andover.
>> Seconded.
>> Jeff Murray has seconded. Does anybody
have any discussion related to the Hop
River Trail Alliance and having Bill
[clears throat]
be seated?
Okay. And I'll call for a vote. Um,
Carol Lee
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray. I
>> Scott Person.
>> I uh Jeff Magcguire. I So four nothing.
Um
uh Bill, thank you very much. We
appreciate you stepping up for that. All
right, we'll go through uh item six,
resignations.
We had a resignation from Tom Reza for
the old Andor burial ground. Uh Robera
Doherty has resigned her position as the
assistant to the assessor.
Megan Lai has resigned from the uh
economic development commission and the
rec commission and Kim Hall has resigned
from the rec commission. Am I missing
anything, Eric?
>> No, you're not. Not that I'm aware of.
>> Didn't we get a letter from Mike Perzo?
>> Say that one again, Scott.
>> Mike Perzo.
Uh uh
he actually also did it. Oh um
that was Tom Risma's letter to Mark Mark
Kurdzo.
So it is Tom Rinsma
Rimsa.
You okay Scott?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Good. All right. Uh, and then we'll move
on to item seven, the town
administrator's report. And, uh, for
this meeting, um, Jim, we're going to
have Eric give it to us for his last
meeting and then you can carry on with
his
with these reports moving forward. Go
ahead, Eric.
>> Okay, I will keep this uh short and
sweet. Um the Bunker Hill Bridge
project, the last of the concrete pores
occurred last Friday, which is excellent
news. Next up for that, seven days after
Friday, they can put the uh waterproof
membrane down and travel on the bridge.
So, the waterproof membrane has to go
on, the deck rail has to go on, it's got
to be paved. That's scheduled for
November 20th at this point. Um, and
then some drainage needs to be installed
on the sides. So, the contractor is
still hoping to bring this in by the
official uh date of closure, um, which
is November 29th. So, the bridge should
be back open by December 1st as long as
the weather cooperates over the next
week or two. Um, so that's Bunker Hill
Bridge. Uh so item number two, field
projects. The ECIQC project for the
athletic field improvements. We were
supposed to have a meeting this morning
with DEC with the two representatives
and DEC canled that meeting on us. So
that's not good. Um since it took me
more than a month to get them to
schedule that meeting the last time. Um
that is going to have some negative
repercussions for the town because we
are likely not going to uh be able to go
to contract now without this meeting um
until after the December 5th deadline
where we're going to see a price
increase for the playground. So I don't
know what to do about that at this
point. It's certainly unfortunate news.
Um but you know that's the problem with
dealing with state agencies.
Um, so you've already met Eric, so I
won't discuss item number three. And the
long I want to talk a little bit about
the Longill Road Bridge replacement. So
that is still scheduled to begin April 1
of 2026.
Um, you know, and along with that will
be the temporary traffic signal at Hendy
Road. Um so traffic will be able to to
move moderately well while the bridge is
being replaced. Um prior to that we have
gone out and the town has uh picked
or correction the town plus DO's
committee has picked the construction
inspection services team and we use
using SLR which is the same firm that we
hired for the uh Bunker Hill Bridge
who've done an excellent job for the
town. So, they will be rolling over with
the same project administration as on
the current bridge. Um, and DOT has
formally agreed to that selection. Um,
so that's out of the town's hands.
Somewhere around November 25th, we will
be going out to bid for the bridge, uh,
the actual company to build the bridge.
um you know so with a little luck right
after the first of the year we will have
the team selected the bridge company
selected for that um and be on our way
with that. So that's good news. In the
interim public works has to take down a
series of trees that are located in the
utility rightway right next to the uh
the existing power lines. Um, and that
hopefully will be done in the next
couple weeks and it will be Eric's
decision whether they do that internally
with public works or whether they farm
it out to distinctive tree care or
tenant. Um, but that needs to get done
as soon as possible so we could start
moving the utilities so it doesn't delay
the projects. Um, town hall operations
are running fairly smoothly. Um I am
transitioning right now and I have been
for a little over a week to Jim Balano
as the interim town manager. Um we've
got him fully set up with the bank
account as the uh global administrator
number one. So he has AC
uh privileges um full access to the bank
accounts and is the signer on checks for
both the AES and the town. So, that's
good. Um, as far as other offices,
Robera Doherty has been sworn in and is
now the town clerk. And, uh, Lauren
Persan uh, appears to be willing to stay
on for a period of time as the assistant
town clerk. Still working out what that
arrangement will need to be. Um, we will
need to go to advertisement pretty
quickly for the assistant assessor
position.
um pending any decisions relative to
that. And part of that question should
be a discussion about who fills the role
of social services
um once Roberta is fully transition to
the town clerk. Uh finance office. I
included in the packet a proposal from
Cheryl Miller if you want to consider
that until such time as the board or
somebody finds a new treasure. Um you
have the the blight enforcement report
in the packet. Um in terms of town
engineering, our engineer from Nathan
Jacobson finished the easement mapping
for the bridge replacement on Lake Road
near Basola. I gave a copy of that to
Dennis O'Brien. Um, they're going to
need to also write the nets and bounds
for the easements. And then the town is
going to begin need to begin approaching
the homeowners figuring out what has to
happen to get an easement to the town
for uh for the period of time when that
bridge is under construction.
Um, resident trooper. Um, as many of you
know, we got uh Trooper Cook back to
active duty just recently and then he
tore uh his ACL playing football. So now
he's going to be out for four to six
months. We do have a temporary resident
trooper. Trooper Anderson is filling in
for him. Um, we will need to uh
coordinate with him, myself, Jim and I,
figuring out how to uh do pistol permits
and the absence of our regular trooper.
Hopefully uh trooper Anderson has the
same uh access. Um, if he does, then it
should go fairly smoothly. Um, I talked
about Bunker Hill. I talked about Long
Hill Bridge. Um,
and
uh capital improvement. Um we did they
did approve at their last meeting the
building and GR grounds CIP.
Uh so they approved it with minor
changes. I made those changes. Um and
now that is on file. So that's basically
everything I have for report unless you
have questions for me.
electrical is done at the new community
center right now. What are the next
steps and did you go over them with Jim?
>> I can you repeat that question, please?
>> The electrical work just got finished at
the community center,
right?
>> Yes. So,
>> and so what are what are the next steps
and and did you let Jim know what our
next steps were going to be for the
community center?
>> Yes. So, I did talk to Rick Wilson of
Mitech today. Uh, he's supposed to come
back in and fully commission the
dishwasher because now that is fully
wired and plumbed. Um, I just want him
there when we fire that up. Um, and I
also asked him to come back and figure
out what he had to do to insulate the uh
the waste plumbing. Um, one of the
issues we discovered when we cut a hole
in the sheetrock to do the electrical
work is that the pipes were so cold
because the the dish the uh dishwasher,
not the dishwasher, the ice maker, the
excess water in the back is flowing out
of the pipes, but it's flowing right at
32. So, it's condensing on the pipes um
and it's causing a little bit of
dripping onto the insulation. So, the
insulation in the ceiling in the
basement is wet. So, I've asked him to
address Hang on a second.
Sorry, had to get my light back on. Um,
I asked him to address that and insulate
the pipe and then come in and do the
dishwasher. So, in terms of immediate
projects, those are the next two steps.
Um Rick does have some work to finish
off the automatic transfer switch, but
that's waiting a backlog of parts. So
that is probably another four or five
weeks out. Um after that, the next big
project up would be doing the hood, but
I also recommend doing the hood at the
same time you do the fire alarm system
for the building because there is
currently no uh fire alarm in the
building. And I really don't think you
uh should be um
using [clears throat] a heavy combustion
appliance without a large system in the
building in a building designed for
seniors and people with limited
mobility.
>> So that's my take on it. Um those are it
in terms of projects and next upcoming.
>> Thank you.
>> Anybody else? Jeff Murray.
Uh early.
>> All set.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> No problem. All right. Um
we will uh move on to old business. And
so items 8A were we've already
discussed. Item 8B. Um
is there any update on the finest? Have
we gotten any uh new applications or
anybody that's put up any new
individuals? Eric, has it come through?
>> No.
>> No. Okay. Uh anybody have any discussion
on Andover's finest?
Okay. Uh 8 C the status of the veteran
fields improvement. I know Eric in your
report you sat there and told us about
the individuals that were um
the bidding process and how that worked,
but where are we at with the project?
Just a brief like when started kind of
at a standstill. I had asked about six
weeks ago that we be allowed to combine
the two funding sources into the same
project. Um, and sent them a proposed
finance schedule for both projects
included in one and asked for decision
one way or the other whether we were
going to be allowed to do it or whether
we were going to have to do it as two
separate phases and just put out two
contracts to the contractor. Um, you
know, I've been struggling to get DEEC
to give me a response one way or the
other. We finally got a meeting
scheduled today because one of the
members of DEC was working remotely in
Colorado and didn't want to attend
meetings. Um, then they blew us off
today think for some health complaint.
So, we have no meetings scheduled. We
have no nothing. So, that unfortunately
is on hold. That's dealing with state
bureaucracy.
>> Meanwhile, Jeff, the price of the uh
playground is going to go up 9%.
>> Yep. It's going to be a hit.
>> You're going to have to shrink the
playground,
[clears throat]
>> Eric? Yeah.
>> Let's talk about that tomorrow. How
about that?
>> Fair enough.
>> Okay. Excellent.
Um 8D the AES uh renovation bathroom
project. Do you have any additional
information, Eric?
>> I do not.
>> Okay.
>> Um Jeff, I Valerie reached out to me
November 1st and said they wanted to
review the drawings and I asked for
copies before the meeting and Valerie
responded that she had to get approval
from Caitlyn, the chair, the chairwoman
of the BOE. Um we're into the 10th now.
I still haven't seen any drawings. So,
that's pretty much where we're at. There
was supposed to be a meeting to review,
but it hasn't happened yet.
>> Okay. There's a board of education
meeting on Wednesday. We'll sit there
and see where they're at. And
um 8E the NIP program request for
expenditure.
>> Okay. So, Megan Lai is on this call. I'd
like to She was the one that approached
me originally with a proposal to be
labeling all the drains as he's done in
a lot of communities and I think she can
speak to
>> Okay, Megan.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. So, I had listened to one of the
meetings a while back where you guys
were talking about the funding and had
looked into it and what um you know the
state has on its web page for how it can
be used and it seems like it had to be
relatively tied to pollution um which
makes sense but um in my past career I
was a a director for program and a
nonprofit and that's one of the things
we did to raise education and awareness
of storm water pollution folks don't
realize that storm drains actually in
communities like ours go to the nearest
water body as opposed to, you know, a
water treatment system. So, they may
even intentionally put stuff down the
drain thinking it's the right thing to
do. So, it's a way to engage the
community and raise awareness. Um,
so I'd be happy to help implement it if
it's something the town wanted to
pursue. And I I have touch base with Cub
Scouts. They'd definitely be interested.
Um, and and we're working to connect
with Alboa and Alma. Um, but I think
generally the lake community would be
supportive, especially if there's no
cost that they have to incur.
Okay. So, what we'll do, uh, Megan, is
maybe, uh, sometime you and I can
connect and get some details as to what
the program potentially would entail,
and we can come back and present to
everybody. Um,
but let's uh let's sit there and see
what we can do related to that.
But thank you very much for that. And
Eric, those dollars have been put into
which fund?
>> Uh, I think they're right now sitting in
the CAR program account, but they're not
being spent out of CART funds. They're
just sitting there.
>> Okay.
All right. Um
Okay.
Um,
let's sit there and revisit that at the
next meeting with maybe an understanding
of what the project would would for the
money that's available, what the project
will will get for us. So, Megan, I'll
get with you after this meeting and we
can uh exchange emails and get some
things written up.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Thank you very much.
Um
8F the NCOG animal control cancellation.
Where are we at with that, Eric?
>> Uh we're not anywhere. Uh Jim and I had
some discussions about that. He's got
some ideas about some potential uh town
combinations we could make. Um it's not
something we want to do on our own
certainly and retake that on as a town.
We desperately want to combine with
somebody else and just pay somebody as a
shared service to deal with it given the
change in regulations.
>> Okay. [clears throat]
Did you have another town in mind?
>> I have a couple actually, but let's see
how it pans out before we
see if they're even open to.
Jim, if you could sit there and
investigate that, that would be helpful.
Just sit there and report back to us and
let us know if someone might be
interested in assisting in that shared
service.
All right. Okay. Um,
uh, 8G AES transportation.
Is this the issue related to the school
bus?
>> Uh, yes, primarily.
Uh, so I put my correspondence with Val
in there. My personal suggestion at this
point is they don't seem to very be very
happy with the proposal. Um, and it
certainly hasn't been beneficial to
that's okay.
>> So, we should simply cancel it.
>> Let's let's sit there and move to what
the next issue is.
>> Do you have any other issues related? I
mean, I understand the school issue and
and I understand we we spoke about it
and I understand where we're at.
>> Yep.
>> We're we we will sit there and deal with
that issue. That's um
um it's not something that should be at
this meeting to be really honest.
>> So, but is there anything else related
to AS transportation that we need to
discuss?
>> Not that I know of.
>> Okay. Um,
and just so the other board members, I
mean, I I'm assuming you all had the
time to read the issue related to the
the school bus and the transportation.
Um, I I would rather deal with this uh
directly with the school board and with
the superintendent because it is not
something that really should be brought
up and
brought up here. So, okay. Um let's now
move on to 8H the status of the
community center assistant. Um we had a
meeting uh a previous meeting where we
all attended and we had uh discussed the
the senior center and what we were going
to attempt to do with the individuals
that were at the
that are currently working there. So,
Tess Grouse is uh the senior center and
the community center director and Haley
Proto has been serving as um
a co-ho assistant director. Um
and Eric, just from my standpoint, the
hours that Haley is currently
um working,
>> Haley is currently working 19 hours a
week.
>> 19 hours a week. Okay.
And Eric, just from a standpoint of of
understanding the line item for that,
um,
based upon us,
well, we're going to go two different
things. One is the
stipen currently being paid related to
the municipal agent and the social
services. is what?
>> Uh, I don't know. If you give me five
minutes, I can look it up though and
give you that number if you would like
it.
>> I would love it.
>> Okay.
>> 6,000 and change, I think.
>> Yeah.
>> Cargo pants.
And then um what I would ask is
Eric, if you also can sit there and
if we kept Haley on at the 19 hours,
what is the expected
amount that we would be in an
overbudgeted pos underbudgeted position
in that line item?
andor a senior senator or senior
citizens.
Okay. Well, for the board members that
are here, what I need to find out and I
need to get from Eric, the the thought
is to take the stipen and use the
remaining balance on the stipen and roll
it over to the account that we would
have [sighs]
um
a negative position on because uh
knowing we had not budgeted for the 19
hours for Haley uh for a long term that
money would need to come from another
line item.
So the hope is that we can fund those
additional hours and use the stipen to
offset some of it and then also sit
there and work to um
generate some additional funding so that
we can offset Haley's Haley's cost
because I do think it's in beneficial
for us to sit there and keep both the
individuals there um and the other one
question is Lind Linda Derek is still
doing this transportation, right?
>> She is doing the transportation. Yes.
>> So that those numbers should probably be
added to the line item.
>> Uh absolutely. I mean you have [gasps]
you have Linda probably coming out of
the transportation line item and we need
to ask that question to Eric.
Eric, did you leave us early?
>> No, I'm still here, but you asked me to
look up some information, so you're
going to have to be patient and let me
do it.
>> Okay. Um, so Jeff, so we have we have
the the stipen, we have the other line
item for the assistant
and and Eric, while you're on the phone,
do you know the account number so that I
can look at the the treasurer's report?
community center. There we go. So, right
now in the community center information,
and that's on page 150 of our 216 page
report, we have um a $47,000 line item
for the wages for the director. We have
$10,000 for uh the line item for
community center assistant and we have
the stipend that is available for the
senior
money. So what we would want to do is
put that stipend
u put the those two positions over into
the
community center and offset those costs.
So,
uh,
my my assumption is that we're going to
be somewhere in the range of 20 15 to
$20,000 over budget on that line item.
And
we have to determine if we're willing to
sit there and do that for the benefit of
the community center.
So, I am personally in favor of doing
it, but
>> new to our discussion, Jeeoff, is if we
engage the board of finance and come up
with a way to pay for it, I'm fine with
it.
>> Um, just so everyone's aware, I did
reach out to Liz Loatch and uh, Bill D.
Rogers before the election because I
wanted to make sure that I reached out
to both sides of the board and I told
them both what the thought was and they
both understood that
we would be coming back to them looking
to transfer funding from one line item
to another line item at the end of the
year. So, um you know the worst case
scenario would be to take it out of
contingency. That wouldn't be my intent.
My intent always is like this year we
were uh somewhere in the range of about
$100,000 under budget on the town side.
So we would have been able to move it
from one line item to another. So, I did
reach out to Liz and I did reach out to
Bill um being the two people that were
on the board from
um both sides of the board of finance
aisle and uh they were both made aware
and neither one of them and Liz is on
the phone neither you know Liz wanted to
make sure that we didn't overspend
[clears throat] it by too much and our
goal would be not to but I think it
would be appropriate for us as the board
of selectmen to deal with making sure
that our seniors and that community
center is is is used and
uh
everyone gets the appropriate service
that they need to from the town. So
Eric, did you have some numbers now that
you popped back on for us?
>> Sure. Currently the stipend
[snorts]
is $6,100
annually.
uh the deficit if you take the wages at
the current rate for Tesl
Haley Proto and the Linda Derek all
um Linda Derek's can be absorbed with
the driver dispatch salary because our
driver's hours are low enough right now
that we can just treat her as an
additional driver because her pay rate
is basically the same as the drivers.
Um, it leaves us a net cost over budget
of $16,78
annually.
>> Okay.
Um,
that is an amount of money that I'm
willing to sit there and go figure out
where we can pull it from from other
budget line items. I think it's
important to the community that we um we
keep uh the staffing levels that are
currently being dealt with at the
community center there. And um
Jeff, since I'm going to all the board
of finance meetings from now on, I I
know we'll be able to work with the
board of finance on this one.
>> Okay, let's get it on their agenda and
then um let's have them all discuss it
and send back a favorable vote then and
figure out how we're going to pay for
it.
And I'm finally,
>> so first of all, if you just took it
from the public works salary line item,
remember you went three full months
without the two highest paid employees
at public works uh employed because of
employee turnover. So there's well more
in that budget in salary than that
value. there's enough in the public
works supervisors line alone to pay for
it if you wanted to take that out.
>> Well, I I understand where Jeff's
coming. So, what
>> But that's not our decision. That is the
board of
>> I understand. And and and what I'm going
to do though is because I told the the
members of the
uh at our last meeting that we would
vote on this. So, I'd like to make a
motion that we uh approve the
continuation of Haley Proto's contract
till the end of the fiscal year 2025
2026 or uh till [clears throat] the till
June 30th of 2026
um at the current compensation levels uh
pending the approval of the board of
finance uh at their next regular
scheduled meeting which is
um
one second. I got to look at my
calendar.
Uh no
>> November 19th
>> 19th.
>> Second staff. Jeff,
>> can I
can I just ask a quick question? Is
there that 15,000 in the uh town
administrator budget? Is that going to
be used the project manager?
because I I didn't see that anything was
used on that. So, um that could that
potentially be part of the money?
>> Uh absolutely. I mean, um what would
happen, Carol, is we would sit there and
look at lines that are under budget and
then come April, we would sit there and
send a transfer request to the board of
finance. What we were trying to do and
what Jeff Murray recommended was that,
you know, we reach out to the board of
finance and let them know that this is
coming so that we're not just surprising
them at the end of the fiscal year
saying, "Hey, we decided to do this."
And I have no problem with the other
members of the board of finance being
made aware of this and voting on it. Um,
and they're not going to be able to vote
on anything other than understand that
we're going to send them a transfer come
April of 2026 because we anticipate
being overbudget on that line. And
Carol, we can use anything.
>> I think they can make a motion where to
take the money from. That's what I'd
like to see. So, that money is money's
earmarked till the end of the budget
season.
>> The $15,000 Jeff is going to be used for
the uh
veterans improvement, the engineer for
that.
Christine Rendaza, the engineer.
>> She's going to be using that. She's
going to be overseeing that.
>> Yeah. And so my but
>> you're going to use the full 15,000
for that.
>> Um the
>> earmarked for that.
>> Was earmarked for it, but it was it was
based on an hourly rate. And I think
when we sat there and approved of that,
the hourly rate was was from Jeff
Murray's perspective being an engineer
was reasonable.
>> Because I believe that's an hourly rate.
>> And what was that? What was the hourly
rate?
>> Uh Eric, I mean, Eric, do you have that?
>> I don't have it off the top of my head.
I would have to look that up.
>> Never mind. I I just found it. I was
looking it up. Um, it 100 an hour was
what it was figured out to be.
>> Okay.
>> Is what it was moved for. It's got got
moved for that for the 100 an hour.
>> Yeah. I mean, it it is uh, you know, I'd
like to sit there and see that project
get underway. Um,
but Carol, if that money is there, if we
don't use all 15,000 of it, we would use
some of that money to offset that line
item for community center expenses.
So, I I'm not really I'm not, you know,
like I said, worst case scenario is we
take it out of contingency.
[clears throat]
We don't want to take it out of
contingency. The hope is that we have
other line items such as uh the the
public works salary line item where we
can move funding from.
So,
you know, knowing how we have operated
over the past four or five years, we
always have some level of of resources
available at the town level. They may
not be excessive, but they should be
significant enough to cover the $15,000
or 16,78
of overspend that we anticipate.
So, I had made the motion
uh that we approve this and we make sure
that we get approval from the board of
finance at their next meeting. And Scott
seconded it. So, Carol, do you have any
other questions related to this?
So, you don't think that we should wait
until we do get approval from the board
of finance to move forward with this?
>> No.
>> See where the money is coming from?
>> This is this is all pending the board of
finance approval.
>> Yeah, this is subject to board of
finance approval, Carol,
>> which I'm fine with. They control the
they control the budget and the money,
and I want them to make the decision
where it comes from. So your motion is
that we're going to extend it through
the end of the fiscal year pending
approval from the board of finance. Is
that the motion that you made, Jeff?
>> That's what I made.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. All right.
>> And the meeting is scheduled for the
19th, which is 10 nine days from now.
And
we will sit there and I will have a
discussion with the full board of of
finance at that time.
Okay.
>> Okay. All right. Um, so we'll call we'll
call the vote. All those um Carol Lee
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray
>> Scott Person
I for Scott. Jeff Magguire I. So uh four
nothing. Okay. Um we're going to move on
to item nine. uh new business and
discuss upon the following um 2025
meeting dates. Uh I am okay with the
meeting dates that are scheduled there.
The one date that's in question is the
October meeting.
For 2026,
I would recommend that we schedule it
for October 5th rather than October
19th.
Anybody have a problem with that?
>> No.
What page is that on?
>> There's lots of pages.
>> Page 22.
[sighs and gasps]
>> Page 22. Okay. So, that's the schedule
for the calendar year. second Monday of
the month at 7 p.m. Uh, the only one
that fell on a holiday was the Columbus
Day of um the 12th of October, 2026. So,
it was I would rather it be scheduled
for the first Monday of the month, which
is October 5th.
Anybody have a problem with that or want
it to be scheduled for the 19th? I am
flexible.
I'm good with the fifth.
>> Okay, Scott.
>> Good.
>> Jeff.
Okay. So, um I'll make a motion that we
uh approve the um proposed 2026 regular
meeting dates um
as outlined as the second Monday of each
month at 7 p.m. uh with the exception of
uh October of 2026 with the meeting
being scheduled for October 5th.
>> Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. Further
discussion.
Uh Carol, how do you vote?
>> I
>> Jeff Murray
>> I.
>> Scott Person.
>> You can't hear me, Jeff?
>> No. For some reason, when you try to say
I, your speaker does, your microphone
doesn't work. So, Jeff Magcguire I. Is
everybody else hearing them or is
everybody missing them?
>> Say hi.
There you go.
>> Coming in late. Comes in late.
>> There's a delay and I don't hear the I.
So, okay, we're good. Um,
uh, item 9B, the status of the treasur
proposed contract discussion, uh, or
alternate. Um,
we all we all received that. I I would
personally like to I'm I'm planning on
being in the office on Wednesday. I
would like to sit down with the
treasurer and talk to her about what
she's proposing. I I honestly believe
that we should at a minimum keep her
engaged through the end of this fiscal
year audit. Um but I would like to
discuss with her um
personally her recommendations and what
she's looking for as far as u
uh an opportunity for 2026. I don't know
if anybody has any um Carol if you have
any
caller you want to provide to that.
>> You're saying to keep sher the treasurer
on?
>> Yes. Yep.
>> With the proposal that she gave us,
correct?
>> Correct. Yes. Yes.
>> But you're going to talk with her, you
said on Wednesday. No, I want to talk to
her. I want to talk to her on Wednesday,
but if somebody wants to sit there and
vote or somebody wants to discuss
the proposal, I'm all I have no problem.
>> I don't know how everybody else feel. I
think maybe you should talk with her on
Wednesday just to see.
>> Okay. Uh well then then let me do that
and then we'll talk about the the
um I mean because
listen with the the election and with uh
Eric's leaving we have a lot of issues
that we're going to all have to address
and the treasur's office is one of them
that we want to try to minimize as much
uh disruption as we possibly can. So, I
am all for um utilizing Cheryl's
services, but I do want to understand
what that means. You know, how much time
is going to be required because I really
don't, you know, she sat there and and
talked about monthly reconciling or
quarterly reconciling. I definitely want
it done monthly. I do not want it to go
quarterly uh related to the banks, the
bank accounts. Um, so, um, you know, I
need to touch touch base or about, you
know, how she anticipates if she's if
she's out of town, how she's getting
into the computer, a lot of other things
that we should have a little bit better
understanding of. So, if you guys don't
mind, I I wouldn't I wouldn't mind
talking to her and then pushing this off
till next month.
I think you should talk to her, too,
because if
depending on what she tells you, we may
want to get an ad out there and start
taking applications to get someone in
there to cover the office. That's really
important position. We don't want to go
backwards in that office again.
>> No. And uh I 100% agree. So, let me do
that on Wednesday and then I'll report
back to all the members uh by email.
All right. Uh 9C,
uh we had a request from the new town
clerk. It's on page 24. Um
requesting for some IT upgrades
uh within the office. Um,
I was in the office this afternoon and I
asked Eric and [clears throat] Jim to
reach out to South Windsor to sit there
and understand um, what we can get done.
Um,
and I just think we need to evaluate the
IT infrastructure within the office. So,
I have no problem having
uh Eric or Jim sit there and get an
understanding of what it would take. And
if there's extra costs, then we'll need
to sit there and figure out how we sit
there and do it out of our current
capital funds or uh what we do if
there's uh a significant cost of uh
improving the the equipment or the
networking capacity of that office. So,
anybody have any other issues related to
that request?
Okay.
Um
the 9D the acceptance of the section
grant. Um
Eric, do you have some update on this
issue?
>> Sure.
At some point, this is going to have to
go to a town meeting because it requires
a significant town match. Um, however,
uh, you have about another week to
submit this form. So, what I would
suggest is the board authorize you to
sign the form and then you schedule a
town meeting to get that ratified.
>> Okay. Just so we do it in public, how
much is the anticipated grant
for? It depends on what exact vehicle
you select.
>> Okay. So, if we select the biggest and
the best van or the van that we need,
what are we looking at?
>> Give me a range.
>> Yeah.
>> Somewhere between 75 and $120,000.
>> Okay. And if we went to $120,000 for a
van, what are we looking at for a match?
20% of the the total.
>> Correct.
>> Somewhere in the range of $30,000
>> maximum. Yes. Likely less than that.
>> Yeah. Max. And the charter requires us
to go to town meeting at what threshold?
>> I I don't know off the top of my head.
>> Okay. So, the town meeting would be
determined by the threshold required.
Carol, do you have a number for us on
that?
I I don't right now. I don't. I'm sorry.
>> That's fine. I mean, so so depending
upon the vehicle we pick will depend
upon what we need for a town meeting
requirement.
Just saying. I'm I'm not asking for any
I'm just trying to give the public an
understanding of what we're talking
about. So, if we had uh $120,000
vehicle, uh 20% of that cost would be
$24,000.
We could potentially have
a town meeting related to that grant
cost.
Okay. Listen,
>> I I'm just gonna I'm gonna say make a
motion to [clears throat] authorize the
first selectman to sign the acceptance
certification document for the section
5310 grant for a new senior van.
>> Second that
>> Scott Person seconded. Uh, further
discussion.
Although um, Carol Lee,
>> I
>> Jeff Murray,
>> hi
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Maguire. Hi. That was four nothing.
Uh, okay.
>> The signatures. They they they made a
big deal of the signatures on that
thing. And who's gonna You're going to
be signing it, Jeff?
>> Yeah.
Yeah. the form.
>> Yeah, we'll we'll get it, Eric. We'll
get it filled out tomorrow and I'll sign
it on Wednesday.
>> I'm not gonna be here tomorrow. It's
Veterans Day.
>> Oh my god.
>> I'm sorry. So, yes, we'll have it filled
out for Wednesday and I'll sign it
Wednesday afternoon.
>> Perfect.
>> Okay.
Okay. Um
the 9E review of the town administrator
hiring process. Um
there is a significant amount of
information in our packet as to about
how we go about looking for uh the town
administrator and I know Jeff at our
last meeting um we had discussed putting
out ads for the town administrator
locally.
>> Yes, we had discussed that.
>> Okay. Um,
is that the direction that the board is
looking to move in as opposed to hiring
an outside search firm?
Okay. Does anyone want to hire an
outside search firm?
I think we should try locally first and
then if we're unsuccessful, consider the
search firm.
>> Okay.
>> At least give it a month or two just to
see what
>> Okay. comes what comes through. So then
>> or should we give it?
>> Well, we should put it on uh the state
website as far as the uh
we should be putting it in LinkedIn. We
should be putting it in the local
information. We should sit there
>> again, Jeff.
>> Indeed.
>> Indeed. Yeah. Yeah.
>> LinkedIn jobs. There's a bunch there's
tons of places we can put it.
>> All right.
um the municipal web postings.
>> Yeah. So, um
what what is also in here is
um the charter
um so let's sit there and get to the
charter documentation. So that's in the
beginning of this. So on page 33.
So if we go through this and we talk
about the appointment procedures which
is 701b
um
it talks about the committee that should
be appointed to sit there and get this.
So we need to advertise for this and we
should talk about what we're doing
related to our membership to it and we
should also we have to talk to the board
of finance at their next meeting about
appointing someone. So the way that this
is supposed to work uh the board of a
selectman shall appoint a town
administrator who will be chief
executives officers. The appointment
shall be made by a majority vote of the
board of selectmen based on the
recommendations of an add search
committee consisting of two members of
the board of selectment a member of the
board of finance and two electors for
the town who do not hold any public
office whatsoever chosen by said three
public officials.
So, um, we need to appoint two people
from our board for the search committee.
Um, is there anybody interested in
specifically wanting to sit there and
deal with it? And my recommendation is
we do one Republican and one Democrat,
anybody?
Jeff Murray,
>> I'll leave it up to Carol. What What
would you like to do it, Carol, or would
you like me to do it?
>> Go for it, Jeff.
Okay,
Scott. [laughter]
>> Scott, I'll do I'll do the same thing.
Do you want to do it or do you want me
to do it?
>> Okay.
>> I don't know if Ann would be interested,
but
um
>> she's a Democrat. [laughter]
>> She is a Democrat. I agree with you. But
maybe maybe the three maybe you should
just ask her as courtesy to see if she'd
be interested and you guys can decide
between
>> do we have to know tonight?
>> Um well we've pretty much got you know
we understand where we're going to go
>> so I have no problem asking an and
sitting there seeing what she she wants
to do and then uh having a vote over it.
So if she wanted to do it no problem.
But
>> um I will talk to her and then I will
also sit there and get to the board of
finance and get their member selected
because then once we get that done, we
need to select we need to advertise for
the other two members.
>> Um we should do that tomorrow. So, Eric,
if if we could could you sit there and
get with Kate or get with um uh we need
to advertise for um the search committee
members.
And I would also ask that the board
members uh sit there and communicate to
uh engaged residents within the
community that this is something we're
looking for. And if somebody can help us
out that has is not an elected official
and can participate, that would be
great. So
>> yeah, we could probably even send it to
the town committees, too, because I know
Scott Soy had identified somebody that
he thought was very qualified to serve
on the committee.
>> Okay. um have no problem. Let's get that
situated as quickly as we possibly can
so that we can move forward with that.
And then once we get that up and
running, the members of that committee,
we will sit there and and work on
getting uh
uh information out there to uh Indeed
and all the other sites and get this
going as quickly as we possibly can.
Okay. Anybody any other problems with
that issue?
Okay. [sighs and gasps]
Um, anybody have any questions related
to all the informations in here? I know
that if if it doesn't work and we go in
a different direction, there are
proposals or potential RFP proposals for
different search firms. Um, anybody have
any any questions for Eric or they want
to discuss any of that information?
Okay.
Um,
>> I just wanted to say I sent an a text
and she said that she might be
interested in serving on that panel for
town administrator.
>> Okay.
I will call and talk to Ann tomorrow
when she gets home and we'll sit there
and see what what we can do because then
my question is who votes, the three
Democrats or the entire board.
>> Okay. She just sent me a text that she
definitely would like to be on that
panel.
>> Okay. So now I'm asking the question, is
it the three Democrats that are voting?
Because if it's the three Democrats, if
it's the three Democrats that are
voting, Scott, how do you vote?
>> I vote for me. How do you vote
for you?
>> Okay.
But I think wouldn't it be the whole
board that's going to vote for the two
that are going to serve? Whether it's a
republic,
you know, I mean,
I would think it would be the whole
board would still vote regard I mean,
you suggested that one of the Democrats.
>> Okay, I'll tell you what. Let's have
>> Can we do this next meeting? Can we do
this next meeting? Because we're gonna
have to still go out to the board of
finance. We're still going to have to
advertise for two people at large and
then we can appoint everyone at the next
meeting,
>> right?
>> So, we're going to put it off for 30
days.
>> Point of order. You guys don't get to
choose at the next meeting. The three
people, the two people the board
nominated and the one person the board
of finance
>> pick the other two per the charter.
That's not a board of selectman
decision.
>> Yeah. No, no, no. We understand. We just
need to get I understand that part, but
the issue is are we going to wait 30
days to sit there and do this? So, um
I I I sit there and I go just
vote.
>> We should pick the members of the board
of selectment tonight.
>> Vote on me first. Go ahead.
>> If one of you two doesn't vote for me
and you vote for Anne, then Anne will
serve. If one of you votes for me, then
I would be the other member of the
board, the committee.
So, Jeff, do you want me or Ann on that
committee?
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> I I would like to talk to Ann first
before I mean she says she wants to
serve kind of in the middle here. I
really don't care who it is. I don't
>> that's that's that's what politics is
all about, my friend, and you know it.
So, do you want to vote for Ann to be on
that committee or me to be on that
committee?
>> Well, you didn't ask Carol how she's
voting.
>> Okay, Carol, how would you like to vote?
Are you gonna vote for me or you gonna
vote for Brandon? [laughter]
>> I'm not kidding you. This is This is how
silly this is.
No, I understand. Okay. I just
I don't know. I would like to see a
woman. I don't want to be the person. I
can't do anything right now. So, I don't
want to be that person, but I would like
to see one woman from the board of
selectmen and one man. Do
>> you know what? This doesn't have to be
this does not have to be a Democrat and
Republican. I would almost yield my
position to an
And it could be that we would have a
woman on the board and we would have
Jeff
and it's settled
>> because I was already on the hiring
committee for the
for the supervisor
>> for two people.
>> Yeah. So
>> we just did it.
>> Yeah.
>> Meuire, you're it.
>> It would be so it would be worth it to
be somebody else. So I would actually
have Ann take my place. that way there
be a woman on the on the selection
committee
if that's okay. It doesn't have to be a
Republican.
>> It's okay. I mean, listen, I it is um
um
>> and I was on the last time administrator
search committee.
>> We we we will need to make sure that we
have a very strong nonelected official
individuals on that board.
>> Yep.
>> All right. So, somebody make a motion to
appoint Ann and and myself on that
committee.
>> I make the motion to appoint Jeff
Magcguire and an Crown
Administrator search committee.
>> Second, Jeff.
>> Okay.
Um, further discussion.
>> Just a quick question. What are you
going to do in terms of the advisory
screening and review committee
which the charter requires?
>> Well, isn't that what this committee is?
>> No.
[laughter]
>> So, so you're telling me we need
>> So, you you've selected your two members
of the ad hoc search committee.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. But you're also supposed to have
an advisory slashscreening review
committee
um
an advis so I have to we have to select
another committee.
>> So what's that? Well, you would you
would have to recruit that committee
because per the charter, the selection
process will include an screening review
committee made up of incumbents from
other towns in similar positions to
determine qualified candidates. So, what
this is saying is if you're not using a
professional search committee, then you
are supposed to be using other town
managers and administrators as your
advisory slashscreening
review committee.
>> Correct? Carter says
>> and and understand I understand I get
that that that wasn't what I was
thinking but yes we are definitely going
to have to um recruit uh as in we did in
the past another town uh manager or
administrator to assist in the advisory
standpoint and
isn't that done after we sit there and
get all this organized because do you
have candidates from uh local town
administrators that are going to help
No, I was assuming you would check that
box with a professional screening
committee.
>> Understood.
>> Hiring screening committee.
>> And and and I understand, Eric, your
your thought on that. And we're going to
sit there and have to go in a in a
different direction. So, we're going to
have to sit there and work as a board to
find the members. Uh we'll work with Jim
to sit there and find out who we can sit
there and get to assist us as we move
forward in this process.
So, um, that is something that we can do
after we sit there and get the entire
committee there because as I'm reading
this, it doesn't say how many people are
going to be on that. It just says we
need to hire a search committee to uh
that committee would be one of the one
of their processes I would assume would
be to review any resumes received and
any applications received.
>> And how long are we going to do this
for?
um
>> before we do the uh professional search
people,
>> well, we have to sit there and see how
we get a response and if we get a
response and if there's anybody that we
believe is qualified and if we don't get
uh a good response to
what we put out there, then we go and do
a professional search committee. So,
basically, we're going to probably try
this for 90 to 90 days, I would guess.
Indeed, R.
>> Yeah.
three months.
>> Well, you're going to have to sit there
and go through this process and then
you're going to have to sit there and
give them a timeline to submit and then
you're going to have to review and then
you're going to have to sit there and if
we feel comfortable that they're they're
qualified candidates, we're going to
have to have an interview process.
I think you should just make it ongoing,
Jeff, until somebody's found because
that interview committee is going to
still interview the ones that the search
committee or the search firm that if we
hired if we have to go out to a search
firm, we would still interview
candidates.
>> Oh, understood. But what Scott was
asking is how long before we decided to
turn around and hire a search committee,
a search firm search
>> I would say February, March.
So 90 days.
>> Yeah. Because right to be honest with
you, November, December is going to be
tough. I mean, not a lot of people are
going to be looking for jobs during the
holiday season possibly. But
>> let's uh trying to get people together
during this next six weeks is going to
be sort of difficult.
>> Okay. So, let's sit there and see if we
can, you know, expedite what we're doing
and do it as quickly as possible. And
then, you know, if we find that we're
not having success moving down this
path, we're going to have to sit there
and pivot. Anybody
got any problems with that?
>> Okay.
>> Uh, just one more thing. Do we should we
reach out to a couple of these search
firms and just get some pricing just so
we know budgetary what we're talking
>> uh Eric has got one
>> like to talk about it.
>> It was $15,000
I think when I read it.
>> 15 plus.
>> So your
>> So I reached out to two firms. your
range is some it's going to be somewhat
dependent on how much services you want.
Um, but the range is going to be
somewhere between a low of around
$10,000
and a high of around $25,000. That's
your range. But you're going to have to
decide whether you want support via Zoom
or support in person. Um, and you're
going to wanna you're going to have to
decide whether you want them doing all
the background checks and investigation
or you want to handle that yourself. Um,
and you're going to want to have to to
speak with them on where you want to
advertise because that can be that can
run in the thousands depending on where
you're advertising. So, those are that's
your range.
>> Okay.
So, are we still
are we still good with moving forward
with the direction that we we want to
move in or are we looking potentially to
sit there and hire a search firm?
>> Search firm seems very qualified.
>> If we were to follow the charter though
with 701B,
um would the
advisory screening review committee
incumbents from other towns. Um,
just I would say put it out to take the
applications
like Jeff said and then um
have the advisory committee screen them,
put them forward and then the two select
men, the one member of the board of
finance and two members
of our public
then
decide after interviewing those that
were screened and put forward.
>> Okay.
>> Who's who's going to do all the
backgrounds?
>> Well, we'll figure out the background
checks. It's it's you know, all of those
things are things that we can get
accomplished. Um it's more a question of
what you're looking at doing. So, I I
would rather if the goal is to sit there
and do this, let's do this for 90 days,
see what we get for applicants, and then
move on as quickly as possible. I don't
want to be wasting time if you know if
we have to pivot and go to a search firm
it's going to delay us you know we're
going to be out another three months
before
>> you know because I read they're they're
>> in you know I was looking at their
documentation and they did have a
timeline as to what it would take for
them to sit there and get potential
candidates for us
>> was another three months.
>> Yeah. Um,
so
if the goal of the board is to sit there
and and and do it, they have, you know,
obviously if we sit there and go to the
search firm, we have another $15,000
expense. If we do it this way, we
probably still have another $5,000
expense. So, what's going to end up
happening is we're going to spend $5,000
to do it this way, and then we're going
to sit there and potentially pivot.
Hopefully, we could find a qualified
candidate that we can all agree upon and
get them hired. But, um,
>> I mean, these search firms are no magic
bullet. They're just going on the web
and looking for resumes and they're
advertising. That's basically all
they're doing. It's it's not it's not
rocket science. We're paying a lot of
money for that service.
>> Okay? And and I I have no problem
supporting that this direction. I just
we just need to do it quickly. I don't
want to waste any time,
right? Because I I'm concerned that we
do pivot and we have trouble finding
candidates that we have to go now go to
a search firm and we have we've delayed
our our permanent replacement.
Okay.
All right. So, we have appointed the two
in two individuals from the board of
selectmen to the committee. We need to
sit there and um get a member from the
board of finance appointed at their
meeting and then uh Jim and Eric if you
can, anybody that you can um identify as
an existing town administrator, town
manager that might be willing to assist
us uh to evaluate um resumes and uh
applicants, that would be great. Okay.
Okay.
Um,
where are we?
Oh, uh, 9F, a review of the senior
transportation garage status. Eric,
where are we at with that building? I
know that's in our packet.
>> So, I gave you the revised structural
plan in your packet that starts on page
115.
uh we did not make it in the packet, but
he did uh provide a revised cost
estimate which I have not even read, so
I'm not going to comment on one way or
the other, and they still have not uh
supplied us with exterior elevations. Um
Jim and I did meet with the contractor
on site to answer a series of questions
that he had, but I don't we don't
currently have a proposal
um you know that I think you should be
voting on at this point.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Um but if you have questions
or feedback on the design itself, feel
free and I'll pass them up.
Well, it was all
>> looked at the front.
>> I mean, there was a slab work and a and
a slight roof truss configuration.
What's the height? What's the exterior
look like? There's a lot of questions.
>> Yep. Concur.
>> Okay. So, we'll sit there and Jim will
look at that and sit there and see if we
can get with the the contractor and get
some or the potential builder and get
some better uh idea of what we're really
looking at.
>> This is all because you changed the roof
truss system to make more room up there,
Eric. I thought that they already came
back with a proposal for that.
>> Well, the problem is is that we didn't
have anything visual. We had kind of a
vague proposal on what they wanted and
they hadn't sent it out for the
engineering. So, we signed a quick
design contract with them uh as part of
the overall process because I feel a lot
more comfortable once I see a final
design and a set of visuals on what this
is we're getting. Um, so that's a stage
where now I had hoped they would have
provided that to us already, but they
haven't. So this is as far along as we
are on that proposal.
>> I mean, at one point you had we had a an
exterior design of that building,
>> right? It might have been internally
done, but so they didn't take that
preliminary design and
>> No. So, so we had an exterior design of
that building
>> which [clears throat]
you and the board didn't want to build
because it didn't have adequate storage
space on the second floor.
So then we turned that based on the
feedback from you and the board. We went
back to the contractor and we said we
don't want this built essentially one
story with the bonus room truss. We want
two full stories and whatever roof you
put on top of that. And that's where
we're at now coming back with that
revised plan.
>> Okay. All right. So
>> So we have more space up there, Jeff.
>> No, no, no. I'm listen I am all good
with it. We space is a problem with the
community. The bre commission needs
space. There's space that needs to be
dealt with. I mean you could put three
garage doors up there on the second
floor and have it be cold storage. Um
I'm definitely all for that. Eric, you
know, when you were initially doing
this, the roof was was situated to face
in um the appropriate direction for
potential solar panels. So when they get
it done, if we can
upstairs, cold storage roof, slanted
roof with the majority of it toward the
back so that we could maximize sun if at
all possible. And uh yeah, Jim will get
with this this group and see what we can
get done so we can have something for
the next meeting. Anybody have any
questions related to that?
Okay. Um,
a 9G, construction inspection services
for Long Hill.
Uh, that's in your packet. Starting as
page 119, the search or the rating
committee, which was myself, uh, one of
town of Coventry's engineers, Mark St.
Termaine. Uh Ed Sizley is a PhD in
construction engineering. Bill Watkins
uh who is the public works director for
Coventry and Michelle Rain who's a DOT
engineer were on the panel. Uh we
evaluated the three firms that sent in
proposals. Um we all preferred the
proposal from SLR
um over the two over WMC and Bes. Um, I
submitted all the forms and the summary
of that to uh do and to VHB and VHB has
gotten concurrence. Um, and uh
um DOT is now negotiating
with SLR for the uh you know for the
compensation for that. This is this was
an RFQ for so it's basically a request
for qualifications. We choose the best
firm and then do basically uses their
standard uh cost uh per hour formula for
each category um as part of the the
thing. I also listed on there what the
interview questions that we asked the
panel and put all the interview rating
forms on there so you could see how each
individual rated them uh total for your
information. So that is basically done.
Um do has preliminary said they're
accept ex the accepting SLR. So SLR when
they finish the project on Bunker Hill
will move directly into the Long Hill
Bridge project for construction
inspection services.
>> Okay. And so this is for inspection
services and this is all part of the
Longill Bridge project. Is this
something that's funded by the town or
is this funded by the state?
Uh this is funded by a combination of
state and federal funds. Okay.
>> The town is not going to actually pay
anything for this bridge when everything
is said and done. Um that presupposes
that
uh at the next
uh Capital Regional Council of
Governments, they have a favorable tip
amendment to cover the increase in costs
for building the Longhill Bridge.
they've requested uh um I don't know
about an extra million for the
construction of that bridge.
Okay.
So
when you say that who who requested the
extra million? Is it the contractor that
the state the state and the federal
program has selected or who who's is the
bid that came up for this that high?
>> So we haven't gotten to the bid stage
for the construction.
However, we've gone through we've
basically gotten through final design
and with final design
uh the designer lists expected costs for
the construction both for materials and
labor and then kind of the next so that
is the estimate on which the tip
amendment is based is on the
contractor's
estimation of the cost of construction.
Then somewhere around November 25th, it
will go out to bid. When the actual
numbers come back, the lowest qualified
bidder will be selected. So basically
all the firms that supply the correct
documentation and have a qualified bid
then go and get reviewed by the uh
design firm that's the bridge designer
of record who comes back and determines
whether the lowest bid is a qualified
bidder and if it is that company is
selected automatically and that then
becomes the final cost basis for the
bridge plus any change orders.
Um,
you know, so basically this accounts for
the fact that it's been four years since
this bridge was originally accepted in
the federal local bridge program. And in
that time, labor has gone up
significantly, materials have gone up
significantly, and the cost of
construction is up, and that accounts
for that.
>> Okay.
Um,
what happens if they reject that?
>> I don't know. Maybe we don't build a
bridge.
>> We don't build a bridge. Okay.
All right. Um,
item. the the reason the region the
reason CROG has to approve it. So, if
it's a tip amendment, that means the
uh Connecticut DOT has already approved
the increase,
but the Capital Regional Council of
Governments serves at as the MOO or
Metropolitan Planning Organization,
and all of DO's cost increases have to
get referred to to Crag for an up or
down vote. Um, but since it's doesn't
cost anything to Crag as a region and
it's already funded money from the
federal or state government, they're not
going to turn it down. They have no
incentive to um
Okay.
Well, let's get it built. So, 2026 is a
big year for that one, right?
>> Correct.
>> Okay. um 9H sustainable Connecticut
award.
>> So Eric, you were at the the ceremony.
Uh Andover was awarded a bronze
certification.
The committee driven by Kathy Palazi and
Ela Bukart did a great job. Um, on page
uh 138 of our packet, it has a bron
certification u
document that was put out there and uh
I'd definitely like to congratulate
everybody that served on that committee
and worked to get it done. I think it's
great for the town.
>> Congratulations to all of them.
>> Yeah. anything that you want to sit
there and add to that from
your position?
No, I think it's
uh for a relatively small town with
limited resources, I think we're,
you know, I look at the sustainable CT
certificate is basically
what the town is doing well in terms of
governance and in terms of doing things
that are good environmentally and smart
economically. and it's an
acknowledgement that we're one of about
35 towns that received this award this
year. So, I think that's kudos to the
town and the sustainable CT committee
for really pushing and doing the
documentation on this and for a lot of
the departments and organizations who do
work towards it.
>> All right. Thank you very much. Anybody
have any questions related to
sustainable Connecticut award?
Okay. [clears throat] Uh 9 I the Percy
Cook Trail Preliminary Plan page
>> Okay. So that is page 139 of your
packet. Uh you have two maps which show
uh an overview of the proposed trail
going down the town property and then an
enlargement of the area directly by the
uh municipal campus. So, I asked the
town's engineer to get us a preliminary
set of drawings because I wanted to
share it with the board of education
simply because I know they're going to
have some significant concerns with
safety for a trail that runs near the
school. And if we improve it and make it
better and more people on it, they're
going to have even more concerns. So, I
had hoped to uh have myself and the
engineer discuss this with the board of
education, but they have no interest in
meeting with us this month. So, that's
going to be uh a future problem to be
dealt with. Um, and frankly, the
engineering firm is going to have to
keep with the design. Um, and then we're
going to have to deal with their
comments or concerns further on in the
design process, which is unfortunate,
but that's a board of ed decision.
>> So, does this proposed trail uh exit at
the fire department parking lot?
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
And
>> we're doing everything we can to keep it
as far away from the school as possible.
>> Okay. And then do they do the does the
engineering group have uh
like what's the distance that the close
the closest distance to that town line
that's near the soccer field
>> the town line near
>> town line or the school property line
you're saying?
>> Yeah that's that's a town property. So
that line that goes back there that's
near the soccer field. How far away is
it?
>> I don't know. Okay.
>> If you if you if you can get that and
then you know if you if they if the
engineering firm can get that and if if
it does come up at the board of ed
meeting I'd be happy to let them know.
>> Um
>> I mean we're not going to know that
until after the survey.
>> Okay. And when's the survey? Well, so we
hoped to have dealt with the school and
had a rough trail idea before we commit
to surveying this because I don't want
to. This is a 70 acre parcel. I do not
want to topo and survey the whole
process because that's well beyond the
scope. So, what I was hoping was to get
this back with the school and know what
area we're toping so they can survey
what they think is the actual proposed
trail. Now, this becomes a problem
because now we either put it off a month
and we don't have any progress until we
talk to the school or we survey and hope
that that's closer to the final path.
And I don't, you know, I'm I don't know
which way to proceed.
And actually, it's not even my problem.
At this point, it's Jim's problem.
>> Well, it's this board's problem. So,
let's sit there and see what we can do.
Um,
>> I'm going to look at the map again,
Jeff, and I'll see if I can figure out
how far how far it is.
>> Okay. All right. Um,
Eric, do you have any more documentation
for
this
for this trail that you would have
provided to the board of education?
>> No.
>> Okay. I mean, look at the looking at it,
Jeeoff, it's a it's quite a ways. I know
that property pretty well.
Well, that's
>> if you look at that map and if you look
at the map enlargement where it comes on
the other side of the community center,
>> it's it's fairly it's it's quite a
because it's on the other side of the
power lines, the gas lines
>> got be
there's a there's a pine grove in there
that's where it's going through and it's
it's that is well beyond that's out of
sight of the soccer field actually.
>> Okay. If if you look on page 140, that
shows their rough ideas of the
elevations based on on the locations in
the location A and B are identified on
the map. So you can kind of see where it
is they're talking about.
>> So it's 100 170 feet from the start of
the soccer field.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
and it's going downhill. Okay.
Okay.
>> Right. So, we did everything we could to
make it out of sight of the school and
not have any impact on the school. Now,
the problem comes in during engineering
when you go out and topo that. There are
some wetlands they have to deal with and
that may be impractical, but that is the
that is the goal is to put the trail
there. So we minimize any impact to the
school and that's what we were
attempting to discuss with the school.
But you know
>> Yeah, I agree with that. That's all
that's very wet in there. It's extreme.
I mean when we used to have the bike
races in there, we couldn't go through
there. It was too wet.
>> Okay.
All right. So,
um I will sit there and um
I will get this to Caitlyn so that she
can have it for the board of education.
And
>> Kaitlin and the superintendent have
copies of this already. They've had it
for quite a while.
>> Oh, okay. Uh I'll send it out to the
other members of the board.
Okay. Go ahead. What's next? Actually, I
gotta go. It's my job. Sorry. Um 9J, the
cannon update.
>> Sure. Very simple. The wheels basically
fell off the cannon. They got so rotted
the spokes all rotted off. Uh we are
ordering a set of replacement wheels
from an Amish wheel builder. Um and an
axle. We're probably going to have to
shorten the axle, but that's a welding
job and public works is capable of doing
that. There's no way we're getting exact
replacement for those wheels because
those were made somewhere in Japan
somewhere in the 30s. So, we're going to
make something that will last, that will
look fairly normal historically and
replace it.
It's going to cost about a thousand
bucks.
>> Okay. Anybody
have any questions related to the
cannon? I mean, I do have to tell you
that that that
monument park and veterans monument park
looks really nice and Jerry Wright and
the rest of the team did a great job.
Every every time I drive by it, I'm
like, it's it is very nice. The bridge
and that monument park, uh, they did a
nice job.
Okay.
Um
uh n um 9k authorized town administrator
to sign a contract for fuel and diesel
for next fiscal year. So Eric, why don't
you give us some information as to the
status of the diesel and fuel pricing
and then we'll make the motion.
>> So the pricing has been fairly steady
for about the last month and a half.
It's ranging somewhere from a low of
about 259 a gallon to somewhere around
265 a gallon for uh diesel fuel. So we
lock in at the same time for both diesel
fuel for town vehicles
um which includes the school as well as
heating oil at the same time. But we use
very little heating oil. So we tend to
key on what the cost of diesel is. And
as far as I'm concerned, if we can get
it for under about 260 a gallon, it's
worth locking in sometime in the next 3
weeks or so. Typically around the first
week of December tends to be the lowest
cost point for locking in for a contract
that's six months out. um for a futures
contract that's six months out, but
obviously geopolitical stuff comes into
play. So, you know, it's always possible
something happens geopolitically that
drives up or down the cost of of fuel
oil.
>> Um I'll basically make a motion that we
authorize the town administrator uh to
sign a contract for fuel and diesel for
the next fiscal year.
um
at the time
that they deem appropriate.
>> Second that.
>> Okay. Further discussion on the fuel oil
contract. It's something we sign every
year.
>> Yeah. Every year.
>> Every year. Any further discussion?
Okay. Um we'll call the call the vote.
Carol Lee.
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
Scott Person,
Jeff Maguire. Hi.
So, that was for nothing. All right. Um,
we're going to move on to item 10,
approval of the minute meetings. U
minute meetings for our 106 2025 regular
meeting.
The minutes start on page 143
and go to 147.
I'll make a motion that we approve the
minute meetings for the 106 2025 regular
meeting.
>> Seconded.
>> Seconded by Jeff Murray. Um we'll call
the vote. Carol Lee
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I for nothing.
Okay. Um, now we're going to be moving
into a reports, the treasurer's report,
a section 11, uh, a finance department
report. Those reports start at page 149
and they go through the,
um,
budget to actual expenditures
and then we move from there. So the over
budget and that's for the current fiscal
year July through October 2025. So that
goes from page 148 to 153. And then on
page 151 we have check register uh for
transactions for the town. So
those are five pages. And then we have
the balance sheet which I appreciate the
treasurer including. So that lists our
balance sheet for the town through the
same period, July through October 2025.
Anybody with any specific questions that
they want Eric or Jim to go back to the
treasur with.
Okay.
Then we'll move on to uh section 12, the
tax collector's information. That starts
on page 164.
We also had a a a letter from the tax
collector uh page 166.
Um
Kate is doing a very good job
actively corre collecting
uh delinquent tax
amounts and uh
you know the information she provides is
is extremely helpful in understanding
what we have. So, in the first section,
she has [sighs and gasps] uh off of our
software system, what we have to
collect, what's been paid to date. Um,
page 165 is the daily deposits and
what's going in. So, October is a big
collection month because it's the
the second quarterly payment that we we
need to make.
166 is her letter about uh her
collection efforts and then 167
through
189 are the
delinquent tax accounts
um based upon total dollar value.
Anybody have any questions?
Okay. Um after that we have uh section
13 departmental reports. So we have the
troop K report um building land and use
and we have to thank Lynn for doing this
for us. Um
there's a lot of information that she
provided especially in pages 203 I think
it is 203 through 208
and I definitely Scott and Jeff and
Carol I'd like to sit there and have
everybody look at that because I'd like
to understand the estimated costs and
what you guys think of that in those
sections. So,
>> I did I went over them and we decided
that the building uh inspector was
supposed to go over those numbers.
>> I just want everybody to be aware of
them because I don't I think they're
low.
>> I think they are too. I I looked at them
myself in detail. It was a very good
report this time. I got to tell her
that. Very good report. But not but I I
think they're very low though.
>> Okay. Um, and the one thing that I would
ask is, um,
are they all without labor? Because I
can't believe that the contractors are
doing that.
So, and Eric, you tell me if I'm wrong,
is the is it the cost of the materials
without labor or is it the cost of the
project?
>> You'll have to ask that one or the
building official.
>> Okay, we will sit there and do it. I
just wanted to bring that to everyone's
attention because it stuck out to me
when I reviewed all the info.
>> I think it should be the cost of the
project because when you get a roof
done, the contractor comes out and tells
you $13,000
and that's what we're paying
how much we're paying on a permit.
>> Yeah. So that's the supplies and the
cost of the the labor for the contract,
right? Okay. I mean I and I just look at
those numbers and I just I was going
they're kind of low. Um, and it's
something that we should evaluate
because,
you know, it's a voluntary system and
it's who's checking the information and
it's just something that we as a
community and as a board, we should be
looking at to sit there and make sure
that we're um
we're advising that department correctly
so that they maximize their revenues.
>> Right. Um,
>> right.
So uh the building department was the
next one that we had. We have also the
information in there related to um
to um blight. [sighs]
Uh
and then we also had a report uh from
public works. So Eric, thank you. Um or
Mark Williams, thank you. Sorry. Um
we'll go from there. And that was it.
Anybody have any questions on any of the
departmental reports?
All right. And then item 14. This is the
first time we've had correspondence. So
Eric, if you can sit there and help us
out. Um,
you wrote a letter to the trails and
greenway program coordinator.
So,
uh, the Hop River Trail Alliance has
looked at submitting a grant to the D
wreck trails program to look at the
entire length in the Hop River Trail to
do two things. Do a safety study at all
the road trail intersections.
Um, this is something that the DP has
been focused on after somebody was
killed at a road intersection. Um,
uh, not off the hop, but one of the
other, uh, rail trails within the state.
Um, and at the same time do a parking
assessment because, um, both D and we
occasionally get complaints that the
parking lots are all filled. So they
wanted to look overall and say what is
our actual you know how much usage are
these actually getting to provide advice
to to uh DP about where they might need
additional trail heads for the trails.
So this is not something that will cost
the town any money. Um, similar to the
uh signage project that was done on the
trail, the organization itself, Hot
River Trail Alliance will uh use,
you know, basically labor in kind as
part of the study. Um, so it won't it's
not going to cost the town any and you
should get something out of it that will
help you if you go to grant fund uh
improvements and crossings of the trail,
things about that, but it's not binding
on the town. It's just a piece of
information that may or may not do the
town some good in the future. Okay. All
right. And then uh we received a letter
from Ram. is uh RAM requesting that we
fund them some of the grant dollars that
we've received.
>> Uh
basically
the town
as the school district
is receiving
some grant money called seed.
Um
but it's unclear as to you know the the
basis of them giving the grant is our
total student population.
Um so it would kind of make sense that
the money would be split between the
regional school district and the local
school district. Um, but Valerie or
Superintendent Bruno has insisted that
all the money will go to the elementary
school and they're not going to share
any with the school district. That's not
my fight. I'm just putting the letter in
there so you can review it.
Okay.
And who received the grant? handover the
town or the school like where did the
money get deposited?
>> Has it got
>> I have no idea.
>> Okay.
All right.
>> So, we'll probably come into the town.
I get it. I mean, depends upon who has
Okay, we'll sit there and deal with it.
I will sit there and bring this to the
attention of the uh chairperson on the
board of ed. We'll sit there and try to
see how to best resolve that.
>> And the real question is, do you even
share it with either school board or
just put it in the town general fund?
Because let's face it, we're already
funding the special education program.
So why shouldn't this come to the town
as a refund for all the money we spend
on their special ed?
um we will sit there and deal with it
and um
we will sit there and talk to the
members of that board and and actually
to RAM to get an understanding of what
they're doing. So I mean obviously Eric
this is this is grant funding for the
expansion of their special education
services. That's what they're supposed
to do. Yes, we are funding their special
education department, but um if there
the state is providing additional
funding to provide additional service to
special education, we'll sit there and
deal with it.
>> Well, I mean, my first thought is since
the town is providing with them a
vehicle for their special education
needs,
[clears throat]
>> maybe we should keep it as our expenses
for running the program.
You know, I wish you well in Dalton and
I hope you get that done in Dalton
correctly, my friend.
[laughter]
I will sit there and we will have a
battle, Eric. I will sit there and I
will get with the rest of the board and
we'll deal with it. And Eric, you do
know that you're loved. So, thank you
very much for everything. Right. Um, as
Eric always does, he stirs the pot. and
I'm sitting there trying to cut this
short and this meeting will end at about
nine o'clock as long as we don't have
too much craziness.
Um, okay. So, um, right now we're moving
on from correspondence to item 15,
public speak. And I'm going to go
through, um, uh, Eric Johansson, we'll
let you go first. You're at the top of
the board.
Again, I just want to thank the board
and Eric for hiring me for the town of
Andover. Um, I have some big hopefully
big things planned that can make the
town a lot better.
>> Okay, we appreciate it. Thank you very
much, Liz Latch.
>> Hi. Uh, nothing nothing more for me
tonight. Thanks, guys. That's a lot of
good work. Megan Lai.
>> Nothing further for me. Thank you guys.
>> Diane Grinder.
>> Yes. Um first I'd like to say uh welcome
to the new guys. Uh Jim and Eric. Um
looking forward to um seeing what you do
for us. So um welcome aboard. Uh good
luck to you. Um, also, um, I'd like to
say that I'm delighted that the board is
looking to find ways to fund, um, both
all of Tess, Linda, and Haley for the,
um, senior center, senior community
center. I think that's a great idea. Um,
looks like there's a lot of support for
that group and, um, delighted to hear
that, uh, you're going to go find some
money for them. That's a good idea. Um,
also I'm a little concerned at the
beginning of the meeting, um, there was
somebody from the Norton Commission who
asked to be on because they had
something they wanted to discuss and it
just seemed to be ignored or
>> nothing happened.
>> Actually, I'll I'll apologize for that
one, Diane. I forgot to add it to the
agenda because I don't know where that
came from. I'll I'll take
responsibility. I'll reach out to Idy.
>> No, okay. I think I say it was just they
had something to say and
like whoops. So
>> understood.
>> Okay. Just letting you know that it was
noticed. Um people notice these things.
So
>> thank you very much. Always a good
meetings. Thank you.
>> All right. Uh Bill Penn.
>> Um
nothing additional to add other than I
will say that I know the person I'm on
the Norton commission also. So I believe
they had attended because they had been
conversing with Anne and Anne had asked
her to attend this meeting. So uh I'm
not sure what their exact discussions
were but that was why she was on here
because she had talked to Ann about
something. So uh I told her basically to
email you guys the whole board and
request to be on the next meeting
agenda. So hopefully she'll do that.
>> That'd be great. Thank you Joanne Heber.
Um, just a couple things. First of all,
I want to wish all of you well as you
look to fill such very important
positions in our town. Um, you know,
looking forward to seeing the people
that get selected for offices and, um,
it's just important because everybody
that's in an office there does give out
important information to our residents.
Um, we come in with questions and we
expect to get the right answers. Um
there's been a couple lapses where that
hadn't happened and I mean no blame on
anyone there but I just look forward to
seeing you know a nice professional
process and and getting good people
hired and then personally I am happy to
see you all know as an outgoing member
of the board of finance I had advocated
for a long time to move the duties of
the um municipal agent and the social
services person over to the senior
community center. now that we have one
and we have a director and many
employees over there. So, um that budget
total was $7,400 with the um MURF
payment and the $6,100 stipen. So,
hopefully that will help um get the
duties and the pay over there. So, happy
to hear that. That's what a lot of other
towns do. So, thank you and good luck
moving forward.
>> Test graphs.
Jeff, I am so all set. Thank you.
>> Okay. Leanne [clears throat] Hutchinson.
>> Hi. Can you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> Hi. Yeah, thank you. Um, I was on
earlier, but I could hear you, but
apparently you couldn't hear me. Um, so
I wanted to say that I'm thrilled that
Eric is reporting that the Bunker Hill
Road Bridge is going to be open by
December 1st, barring some very
unforeseen and, you know, severe weather
events apparently. So that's going to be
um much much more convenient as you can
imagine and also a lot of peace of mind.
And I wanted to thank Eric for his
dedication to the town and he's done a
great deal of work. I wish he was still
going to be a resident at least, but it
doesn't sound like that's going to
happen. But um I'll miss you, Eric, and
I just wish you the best.
>> Okay. Uh Marcy Miner,
>> hi. Uh once again, another um great
meeting everyone. I'm I'm thrilled that
you agreed to renew Haley's contract.
She is an excellent addition to the
center and I believe the investment is
well worth it. Um regarding the hiring
of a new town administrator, I want to
urge you guys to appoint the search a
search committee so we can move forward
as quickly as possible. Um, I just hate
to
hate to have us, you know, sit around
and
spend time, you know, trying to make
decisions and I know how hard it is to
hire people and then you have a lot of
other people with their um thoughts and
we just really need to have a company
that's going to be objective and is
going to guide us towards a best
candidate. Um, so anyway, I think that
we need to start making some investments
for our town and I think another this
would be a good investment for us to uh
be able to move forward with a um a
[clears throat] new administrator. So,
uh, Eric, I've already told you um how
much I'm going to miss you and uh you've
really um did a lot for our town. Thank
you so much. Good luck on your um your
new um prospect there. So,
I'm sure you're looking forward to it.
We'll miss you. Also, I did want to um
appreciate being able to uh see the new
guys in town. It's uh we look forward to
seeing what you can what you'll be doing
with us. All right. Thank you.
Okay. Um Jim Bolano, I will let you have
the last public speak, I think.
because I don't really want to offer it
up to Dennis O'Brien if he's still on.
>> Well, I know Dennis well, too. I don't
know if he's gonna I'm going to live
with that. But anyway, thanks everyone.
Thanks uh to the board of selectmen for
uh for choosing me to do this. I hope uh
I could be helpful. Um if I've heard one
thing in the past uh weekend change is
that um got some big shoes to fill. I
know Eric um did a great job here and he
was obviously beloved by the community
and I want to thank thank him also
because he's taught me a lot and he few
and he's hanging on there. You know some
people in their in their last days get a
little uh get a little loose but uh Eric
has uh still has a few days left and
he's showing me a lot and um I look
forward this feels like a great town,
great community. you know, uh I've been
to many whether they've been Zoom or in
person, uh town meetings and um it's
tough to get people there and just the
turnout here shows that this community
is committed. So, I look forward to
working with you all.
>> All right. Thank you very much. Uh Eric,
do you want to say anything uh as you're
parting uh from our our board meetings?
>> No.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, Eric, I love you. Eric, thank
you so much for everything that you've
done for the town. You've been greatly
appreciated and you know that. Um, I do
wish you the best of luck in Dalton.
They're, uh, they're lucky to get you.
So,
>> uh, okay. Um,
I think we're done. Did I miss anybody
in public speak? And Dennis, do you want
to say anything? because I know you're
on.
Technical problems. Good. All right. Um
>> I think we're okay. Did I miss anyone?
>> Janice?
>> No, he can't. I mean, Carol, did you
want to say something before we leave?
>> No, I'm good. Thank you.
>> Okay, no problem. Um,
>> poor Dennis. That's all I want to say.
Poor Dennis.
>> Oh, Dennis. Dennis is fine.
>> You pick on him. I do not pick on
Dennis. Dennis is a is a dear friend and
I will I will take him out for breakfast
soon. So
>> I hope so.
>> That's right. Um I'll make a motion that
we adjourn.
>> Second.
>> Carol seconded. All those in favor? I
four nothing. Everyone, thank you very
much. Appreciate it, Eric. Thank you
very much.
>> Thank you, Eric.
>> Thank you.